Okay, we're running now.
So tell me a little bit about, I see you've got some curious George dolls in the house.
Well, yes.
They don't look very, not over there for the beauty, but they are some different periods, different, many different, you know, and they look all right to you, but they're not.
Well, there are maybe one, two, three, four, five, or maybe ten or a dozen of them.
So they represent, what, different times?
Well, they are from different times, and that's what they're lying there for.
I mean, you don't have to lie in there, but I don't know where to put them.
No, but they're very nice.
Well, it's certainly something nice for me to look at and to ask a question.
Everywhere I look, I see George.
I see George there.
You sit, you sit.
George there, George there.
I saw him over there.
He's quite a part of your life, isn't he?
Oh, yes.
At least he plays for Boy and Butter.
And you say he's changed.
How has he changed over the years?
How did he change?
I really don't remember it now, but there are at least three or four different production members, what do you call it?
different people who produced it.
The last one being Gunned.
He is still doing it.
Yes, some of those are from the older Russians.
When you feel them, some are quite hard.
It's hard to say what's different about them.
For me, it's a big difference.
But in terms of the character, did the character change much for you?
I created it after all, the character.
No, it's very hard to keep it
Halfway the way I like it.
The American dairy, most of them, just recently, even done to us, produced it for several years.
God, they want to look so terrible.
The eggs, too long, too thin, and the face bed, it's just not the same animal anymore, you know?
But for yourself, could you tell me a little bit how you got the idea for George?
Did you have any idea that it'd become what he did?
No, you can't have an idea of that.
You know, it comes.
It comes, it comes.
Also, at that time, what do you know, that's over 65 years ago, until we started.
We started it in Paris.
And it was quite by accident.
My husband had done some cartoons for a French periodical newspaper.
about the gilaf, the length of gilaf, you know, the giraffes use of the fire tower, or skiing, you know, nonsense.
And Gallimari, a French publisher, called us up and said, couldn't we make a children's book out of it?
They liked the scripture.
Well, we had never thought of children's books.
Well, we needed money, so we said yes.
And the first book we did was, it was a
Many years later, here, it was my brain.
It's French, what I'm saying now.
In English, it was called Cecily G and the Nine Monkeys.
Sorry about that.
Cecily?
Cecily G. And the Nine Monkeys.
So George had... Of the Nine Monkeys.
So how come you decided to take one monkey
Out of nine.
I don't know.
It was all... We get this first Curious George in France right after the Giraffe book.
You know, we thought it sort of nice.
We enjoyed it right away.
My husband, Drew, and I wrote.
It was closer to that, you know.
It was not very close to that.
It was a collaboration.
Yes.
Yes, it was a collaboration.
Except it had its disadvantages.
My husband was very slow and I was very fast.
There's nothing you can do about it that people are that way.
What came first?
The pictures or the story?
Or did the story come together?
It came together.
Sort of.
I think we often we had a, what I call a right thread through the, through the story.
You know that we wrote that first story.
And then, I really can't tell you what came first and what didn't come first.
The first book was a giraffe book?
Sure.
And was that successful?
Yes, I think so.
We wouldn't have dared it was successful, but not as enormously as George's, you know.
So then from the giraffe book, where did the idea for the monkeys come from?
Well, we just thought after the giraffe book, well, let's do another book.
And we both liked monkeys especially, all elements, but monkeys especially.
So we said, let's do a book about a monkey.
And this
We got it out of France on our bicycle street.
We left France on bicycles.
I don't know whether we have any material of us tonight.
I don't.
Do you have any here that I can take?
I think so.
That would be very helpful.
When we're done, if you want.
Okay.
Gosh, those flowers, aren't they gorgeous?
They're wonderful.
Yes.
to keep these things, yeah.
I'm a co-writer.
Have you got children?
I have two daughters who love it, but I have 14 and 12.
Oh, they're really too big, yeah?
But they grew up with your stories.
Yes.
Barbara and Nicole.
The girl's name is Barbara.
Barbara, B-A-R-B-A-R-A.
And her sister is Nicole.
Nicole.
And I see... N-I-C-O-L-E.
O-L-E.
That's called it.
Yes.
Oh.
What paper are you from?
I have a syndicate.
I write for about 25 newspapers.
It's better, yeah?
Makes more money.
Well, it makes it... I have a Quincy... Give me that orange thing there, please.
This?
No.
This.
Yeah.
What did you say, Quincy?
Quincy, Worcester, New London, Connecticut, Salt Lake City, Utah, Charlottesville, Virginia, Eugene, Oregon, Columbus, Ohio, Austin, Texas, about 25 newspapers.
Very nice.
A couple down in New Jersey, Asbury Park, largely university towns.
Yes.
So we'll get a lot of stories out of this.
Yes, yes.
Oh, that's nice.
Thank you.
So we're talking about
The idea for the monkeys, it just kind of... Yeah, I mean, it came the way I just told you.
It wasn't George, it wasn't anything.
It was just a book about a monkey.
And then when we came here, which was several years later, I think.
Some years later.
And... Yeah, we had... Hi, sweetie.
Hi.
Are you leaving?
Huh?
Here.
Hello.
How are you?
Thank you, dear.
Lely.
Oh.
I still can't pronounce his name.
Me?
Baz Baines.
I'll leave you my card.
What is that for a name?
It's Greek.
Greek name.
Greek?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Greek.
Yes, and then?
You know, we left France on bicycles.
We had no car, and we had to wait long for the papers.
As you know, all your paper can travel, not the person, you know.
And... Pussy, how are you feeling?
Better, sir.
Huh?
I'm sorry, I didn't... Oh, thank you, thank you.
Oh, isn't that wonderful?
Ah, is that the French ones, is it?
No.
One of the monkeys is Curious George.
Yes, I told her that already.
And there's the giraffe right there, too.
Yes, yes.
Cecily.
Well, that's one.
Curious George was clever.
So how come you decided people liked Curious George?
I guess there's something about the curiosity of an animal.
Why they like it so well?
Yeah.
Did people, did you hear from the readers that they liked this one?
Oh, sure, sure, sure.
She knows now.
I think it's 55 years now.
55?
It's a very long time.
Sure, that's great.
And that's a lot of generations of children, too.
Absolutely, yes.
Children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
That's right.
And that's the mark of a classic, you know, the fact that if it goes into multiple generations, that makes it a classic.
It is a classic now, yeah.
Well, what is it that resonates, do you think, from generation to generation?
I don't know.
I think, I really don't know.
I only know that it was an immense effort for us to write them.
People always think, you know, of librarians, they say, oh, they must have had fun dashing them off.
You know, there was no effort behind it.
It took us an enormous time to do each book.
And after each book, we said, none anymore.
Too much trouble.
And then we waited five, six years, like mothers having children.
After a while, they had forgotten their paintings.
And...
Then we did another one, but we didn't space them out.
Well, what made it so difficult when people say... I don't know.
The story has to... I don't know.
It's hard to explain.
The story has to flow, and after it went this way, that my husband had ideas.
He had just his idea for, I want a monkey with a dinosaur in a museum, you know?
And I want a monkey...
Various places.
They were often not connected at all.
So my job was, more like a mother musk, you know, or whatever you want to call it, to get that story, those pictures, looking, there was a natural connection there.
And it wasn't all that way, but often.
And I don't know whether one husband there was, for instance,
I don't know whether you know the books at all.
I do.
I have them.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You've read them all.
I've read them.
My children love them.
Yes.
Well, you know the one where George, George, put soap powder on the spurs and all.
Yes, yes, yes.
You know, now that idea came, for instance.
I finally remember that my husband, as a boy, he said, his mother said something wrong.
So we had other boys there and said, you clean the kitchen while I'm going.
Go on to the left.
And so, at that point, he did something similar.
And anyhow, that guy, they used soap powder and made a mess.
Not that big a mess, as he made, but a mess.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know.
Now, when you started, when you did the giraffes, were you working as a team then, a husband-wife team?
Oh, yes.
So you always planned to work together as an artist and a writer.
We didn't plan it.
It happened that way.
We never planned.
In a way, you know?
Yes, we did that before.
We lived in Rio de Janeiro before, and we worked together there already.
But we did other things.
My husband wrote news for the 80s.
He'd lived there for 10 years.
And he knew everybody.
And everybody loved him because he was such a cheerful fellow.
And so was I. You're fine.
You lived in Rio, and you went to France.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
From Rio, we went back to Europe.
My parents invited us to a related honeymoon.
But everybody left Europe, you know.
We went back to Europe.
And we stayed there a while.
We stayed four or five years with parents.
We never wanted to leave you.
Have you ever been to parents?
Yes.
Isn't it wonderful?
It's like it's not real.
It's so beautiful.
Yes, yes, yes.
It's a very magical city.
So why did you leave?
Because the Germans were right on our feet.
The evasion.
That's where we lived.
And we had nothing to go.
So my husband went in one of those large stores.
The homeowner's end, they called them before.
Department store?
Yes, department store.
And there were no bicycles left, but he found somewhere parts for bicycles.
So he made them move.
We didn't know he worked on them until we had them out.
My great surprise, I didn't know he was so efficient.
And then we started.
And we ran out south, south, like everybody else.
And then in the middle of France, we found a tray.
Yeah, I meant to say, at the back, you know what a bicycle looks like?
It has a little thing, and the back is all we could take.
Really?
So we'd take all the books we'd had.
There wasn't too many, but we had books made, which proved to be a very sensible thing to do, you know, to take the books.
Why is that?
Because they knew here what we were doing.
You know, we had to sell all of this.
Oh, so you could show... Of course, yeah, that makes sense.
It didn't really, yeah.
Yeah, that makes perfect sense.
Yeah.
So did it take a long time to pick up over here when you came here, or...?
Well, I tell you, we had already in Rio made, you know, investigated, wrote down all the publishers we had.
We had to start from scratch, and had a long list and so on.
And when we came here,
I came by boat at that time.
You know, I came by boat.
And my sister was on the chaise.
And she said, there's a bad letter from you, from Horton Mifflin.
Now, Horton Mifflin, there's always funny coincidences.
Horton Mifflin's juvenile editor had brought her children over here.
There's so many French women lived during this war.
She had her children here with her grandmother.
And she wrote as a letter, Grace Hogarth, I remember her name, and said, don't see anybody.
I'll come right down and sign you up.
And that's happened that way.
And actually, it was quite a disappointment for us.
We had a feeling we had to work our way up, you know.
But it also was nice.
But it was, well, as I said, we felt disappointed.
We wanted to start all over.
Do you find the children all over the world like the same things?
Absolutely.
Absolutely, yeah, yeah.
So you had no trouble taking the concept and moving it here and having it... No, no, no.
The text, nothing changed in the text.
In the picture, something changed.
Now, if you look at the first one carefully, there are French things on it.
The tabac, you know, the sign.
Signs in the street, one can see it.
There's the flicks, what do they call them, the policemen, you know, with their little kids.
There's things there which you cannot imagine.
And here, too, in one book, it looks like Fifth Avenue.
Remember that thing?
And only in that sense, anything was changed.
But the story, kids seem to laugh at the same things.
children seem to laugh, be amused by, have wonder for the same things all over the world, don't they?
Yes, it is.
We have never, we had never any complaints.
Yes, we had.
There is one book, you know, there is another book, Pretzel, you don't know Pretzel.
I don't know.
It's a book I wrote, yeah.
It's a book about the long dachshund, and at one point, the dachshund, the dachshund, he gets married to Pretzel, and they go
And they get married.
And they walk and they don't want to see a session towards a church.
And that was the stuff.
Some people wrote as animals cannot be married in a church.
There's things like that, you know?
It's amusing.
You never know.
I mean, there's always somebody out there to pick on things, I think.
Yes, yes, yes.
Not much.
We don't pick much.
Yeah, I really don't know.
Everybody asks me, of course, why this is so stressful.
I don't know.
You have to do guesses at all and what.
But it certainly changed your life, didn't it?
Oh, yes.
Oh, yes, of course.
You know, it's a profession to have.
You get royalties.
You get what?
Royalties.
Oh, royalties, yeah.
No other profession does royalties, no?
Years after the fact, too.
Constantly, yeah, yeah.
And the books are better doing just as good today as they were 20 years ago.
Yes, yes.
It's amazing, yeah.
It's amazing.
And what do you think your husband would have liked to do with his art if he hadn't have done children's books?
Oh, he would have been a scientist.
He wrote two books about the stars and astronomy, and he was really a scientist.
He was just, he could do anything, you know, but it wouldn't have been any difficulty for him.
It would have been more difficult for me.
But you said it was very hard.
You say this work was very, very hard.
Very hard.
To do it as well.
I mean, it may be that part of the reason that we are so well liked.
That we took infinite trouble with the story and with the drawing.
And that may not sound like much to you, but it is.
Well, I'm a writer.
I've written my own book.
You know that?
I know exactly what you're saying.
Oh, yeah.
You know what you're saying.
The trick is to make it look easy.
Yes, absolutely.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
But believe me, I know what you're saying.
Nothing is easy.
Nothing good is easy.
But all has to look easy.
I'm not going to take up too much of your time, because I have the books, and I did want to come by and get a couple of quotations.
Sure.
What do you do?
I live out in the Worcester area.
Oh, here.
It's Massachusetts.
Yeah.
And what's the doggie's name?
Jeannie.
And how old is Jeannie?
She is quite young.
How come she has a little diaper one?
See, we haven't yet managed to... I've never seen such a diaper.
The only dog in a diaper.
Not many dogs wear diapers.
Yeah, that is funny.
What kind of dog is she?
Oh, she's very, very nice.
I've got a big Labrador Retriever.
Oh, yeah.
Big, yeah.
Black?
Black, yeah.
Nice dog.
Very nice.
Yes.
What else was I going to ask you?
Margaret, you always told me why your books are so much loved by children.
It's because it has a lot of things that children would love to do, like getting into trouble and all that, but they can't do it in real life.
They do it through your book.
Yeah, like painting a room and all those things.
She's sweet.
She's sweet, yeah?
And George gets into trouble, but he gets out of it through his own ingenuity.
Yes, yes, this is part of George.
You want to get rid of him?
Let's throw him down.
Okay, I'll go with him.
So when you were creating the stories, was that in mind, that you would have George do the kinds of things, the kids?
No, he had nothing in mind.
Everybody asks me these questions, and they get on a long track.
We wrote the stories only the way we liked it.
It was our only limit.
And by a happy coincidence, the children loved it later.
It was exactly right.
We never let people do now, you know, asks in schools and, you know, research and all that stuff.
It's all baloney.
You know, if you're gifted enough, you don't need it.
That's right.
Now, if it makes you laugh, it'll make the kids laugh, right?
Yeah.
And, of course, you never wrote, did you write,
Did you feel that you were writing down to the children?
No, no.
No, of course not.
Not at all.
But as I say, we hardly ever thought of children as when we wrote them.
It was we just wrote them.
And I never look at other children's books, and people always think it's funny, but what children have I?
I wouldn't have it in any way.
Never do.
I'm trying to write a children's book now myself.
Oh.
Yeah, my book just went into its fifth printing.
I have a book about bibliomania, about bubble madness.
In fact, I'm signing at Borders tonight.
I'm going over to Borders to do a signing.
Borders?
It's a bookstore in Boston.
It's called Borders, B-O-R-D-E-R-S.
B-O-R-D-E-R-S?
Yeah, it's a chain.
It's a chain of bookstores.
Borders bookstore?
Yeah, I'm signing there my book tonight.
What's your book called?
It's called A Gentle Madness, and it's about bibliomania.
It's about the madness of books.
And I'm just right now proposing to do a children's book on this subject.
Who's your publisher?
I'm with Holtz.
Henry Holtz?
Oh, Henry Holtz, yeah.
They're here, aren't they?
No, they're in New York.
They used to be in Boston, yeah.
No, Holtz has always been in New York, but... They had a small office in Boston.
Holtz, H-L-Z.
I know, a dad was in here.
Yeah.
But the children's book, I'm...
proposing to Mrs. Houghton Mifflin, actually.
Oh, that's ours.
And they like it very much, the idea.
It'll be about libraries through history, like Alex.
I'm just, I'm going with, I just wrote a letter to Anita Sylvie, the boss.
And we're just talking now.
There's no, but they like the idea and we're developing it.
And my own publisher, Holt,
I think it's good to have a different publisher for your adult books and your children books work with different people.
And this is closer to home for me, because if they get an artist, then I can work with an artist.
Is it a historical look?
Yeah, but it will be libraries like at Alexandria in Egypt through history, how books have been preserved and saved and how people have been, you know, interested in saving things.
It's kind of, I haven't got a title for it yet, but I'm just working.
We don't have to talk about this certainly.
But really, I don't want to take up too much of your time.
I know I've got plenty of material.
Do you think we've hit the high points?
I think really the books speak for themselves, certainly.
And I know that there's a lot of material in this that will help me.
So really, I've got a half an hour, which is really very good.
And they told me, can I take this?
No, I don't think you have enough.
You have several of them.
Okay.
Good.
In fact, you want to sign it to me?
Yeah, that would be nice if you'd sign this to me.